President Joe Biden says the US is
negotiating a new UN resolution on Gaza
that quote we may be able to agree to
the country is holding talks with key
allies the UN Security Council still is
working to get us approval on a
resolution sponsored by Arab states to
Halt the fighting a vote on that has
been delayed for a third time as
diplomats negotiate with the United
States on the
wording the latest version calls for a
suspension of hostilities between Israel
and Hamas which many countries
designate a terror group over the
weekend France the UK and Germany joined
Global calls for a
ceasefire but even if the security
Council passes a ceasefire resolution
it's not clear if it would be heeded
Hamas has issued a statement saying
there should be quote no talk about
prisoners or exchange deals except after
a full cess cessation of aggression and
speaking as those negotiations went on
at the UN Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu who also appeared to
rule out any
truce we continue the war until the end
it will continue until Hamas is
eliminated until Victory those who think
we will stop and not connected to
reality we will not stop fighting until
we achieve all of the goals we have set
the elimination of Hamas the release of
our hostages and the removal of the
threat from Gaza we are attacking Hamas
with infernal fire everywhere including
today we also attack their assistance
from near and far all Hamas terrorists
from the first to the last are dead men
they only have two options surrender or
die for more on those diplomatic talks
and the politics surrounding the
situation in Gaza I'm joined from Tel
Aviv by Myra zonshine a journalist and
Senior Middle East analyst with the
international crisis group Myra can I
just get your a reaction on what
Benyamin Netanyahu has said he has
talked about fighting on till the very
end it doesn't see sound very much like
Mr Netanyahu would respect any truce if
at all it was agreed at the UN or in
another
venue right well we've heard from
Netanyahu and from most of the Israeli
leadership that this war will take
months and months and months and that it
will take a very long time because they
are dedicated to what they say is the
distru ction of Hamas uh that military
objective is something that almost 3
months into this war it is hard to see
um I just don't I don't think that
Israel is able to really build a victory
narrative at this point and Netanyahu as
many know and understand is interested
in political survival he's already in a
reelection campaign as he knows that
most Israelis are interested in an
election or in some kind of removal of
him from Power once this war ends and so
the question of if how and when when
this war will end remains very obscure
the victory remains completely Elusive
and as such Netanyahu continues to talk
about endless endless work Myra
meanwhile the US also says quote very
serious negotiations are taking place on
a new ceasefire Gaza ceasefire but the
prospects for a deal remain uncertain
with Israel as we just saw and Hamas
both standing firm in their demands what
do you think is needed now in your view
to break this
Deadlock
well we certainly need a ceasefire but
what's on the table currently from
Israel is some kind of pause the type of
pause that we saw in late November in
order to release hostages there is great
public pressure from the families of the
hostages in Israel to first get the
hostages out and then continue on with
the war as Israel sees fit um you know
so what's what's on the table currently
both in the UN and in the Israeli
proposal is something that Hamas has
officially rejected Hamas wants a
complete stop to the war something that
Israel rejects but you know as far as
the crisis group is concerned and
certainly many humanitarian agencies
because of the disaster in Gaza uh the
starvation the disease the outbreak and
the fact that we don't really see an end
to Hamas rule there yet uh we need a
ceasefire now there's also Regional
escalation to worry about and these are
all reasons to stop the war and then
enter into some kind of diplomatic and
political process which is really the
only way that will bring security to
Israelis about the UN Security Council
uh draft Gaza resolution the US is
wrangling over the wording there as well
what do you think needs to change for
the US to back
it well I think the US has already TR
you know it's already made it clear that
it's not interested in a ceasefire or
what what they've been calling a
sustainable I think cessation uh they
want a pause um I I'm hoping that that's
something that the US can agree to but
you know the US has made it stands very
very clear um even though it's tried to
limit maybe in some ways the way Israel
is is waging this war the US is 100%
behind Israel it is not calling for a
ceasefire and so any UN resolution that
alludes to ceasefire is not going to be
uh supported by the US uh if it's some
kind of pause then maybe that's
something that the US can get behind we
were talking about Benjamin nanahu
earlier and I'd like to bring him back
into the conversation how much do you
think there is a sense that uh Benyamin
Netanyahu and his government are getting
frustrated and even angry at the way
Israel's closest allies now talking
about its actions in
Gaza well I mean I think that Israel has
been able to act with impunity for for
decades uh with regarding its treatment
of the Palestinians and so you know I
don't I think Israel is aware that
there's a big problem with the number of
people it has killed and the fact that
it's really instead of destroying Hamas
seems to just be destroying Gaza so you
know Netanyahu is also showing to be be
confronting by B in on his you know
so-called pressure because he thinks
that will get him uh points with his
base here in Israel um so you know I I
don't really sense that Israel feels
pressure uh from the world obviously
there's major protests in Western
capitals um but otherwise Israel
continues to operate as it as it pleases
pretty much we'll leave it there thanks
so much for joining us today myavon and
Senior Analyst at the international
crisis group in telev thanks so
much